{:title  "tech.ml.dataset Backend Implementation"
 :layout :post
 :toc :ul
 :author "TAM Pai-Lok"}
​
tech.ml.dataset is a Clojure library for tabular data processing similar to Python's Pandas, or R's data.table. It supports pragmatic data-intensive work on the JVM by providing powerful abstractions that simplify implementing efficient solutions to real problems.
​
Detailed documentations of tech.ml.dataset can be found on its [official website](https://github.com/techascent/tech.ml.dataset).
​
## Dataset Construction
​
Alternatively, you can also create the dataset using the function `ds/->dataset` provided by tech.ml.dataset, with which you can create a dataset from:
​
- common file types(e.g. csv, tsv, xls(x), json)taken from local - file system or URL
- sequence of maps
​
For detail usage, please refer to the [official document](https://techascent.github.io/tech.ml.dataset/tech.v3.dataset.html#var--.3Edataset) of tech.ml.dataset.
​
## Row Selection
​
The row selection operations are implemented with the `ds/select-rows` function in tech.ml.dataset, which natively supports both "by-filter" selection and "by-index" selection. When multiple filters are provided, we use `reduce` to repeatedly apply `ds/filter-column`.
​
## Column Selection
​
The column selection operations are implemented with the `ds/select-columns` function in tech.ml.dataset.
​
## Optional Selection

### Group by
​
The grouping by operation is implemented using the `ds/group-by-column` function provided by tech.ml.dataset, which accepts a regular dataset and returns a grouped dataset. The grouped dataset will then be handled by the aggregate functions.
​
### Sort by
​
The sorting by operation is implemented using the `ds/sort-by-column` function provided by tech.ml.dataset.
​
## Aggregate Function
​
tech.ml.dataset lacks customized support for aggregate functions. Therefore, we need to use the `ds/descriptive-stats` function to generate relevant statistical data of relevant columns when performing grouping by operations, and select the required columns during column selection.
​
We defined the `get-agg-key` function to solve the naming problem of aggregated columns.